Namaste!
You may have played this game already.
The Mummy Maze was the name of the game.
A dead and dried up, bandage-clad Egyptian
Mummy, and you are exploring through a maze
inside a pyramid, and it is chasing you through
the labyrinth.
What is special about this though is — this
mummy is quite strong!
If you take one step forward, it will take
TWO STEPS forward!
But…, it is a bit low on IQ.
And so, its movements will always be TOWARDS
YOU.
As a result, if I am the mummy, and I get
caught in a tricky situation, am blocked by
a wall, and to continue the chase, if I have
to move around the wall, and in doing so if
I am going to temporarily go FARTHER AWAY
FROM YOU, I won’t move!
Watch this!
Did you see that?
It could have caught the human, but it is
not!
It is not moving, because moving will render
it temporarily farther from the end goal of
capturing the human!
I can CATCH you if only I have the additional
wisdom of “going around a temporary obstacle”,
but I won’t suffer temporary discomfort
because I lack the brains for it!
A foolish mummy!
What is the lesson there?
There is a little lesson!
Observe!
My dad used to run a typewriting institute.
For a very long time, before computers became
famous.
Typewriting..
Lower.
I have passed “lower” in typing.
I have passed “higher” in typing…
ASDF… remember all those phrases from that
era?
He was running a typewriting training institute.
He used to take students in batches for the
exam.
And, one advice he would give to all the students,
just before they got into the examination
hall?
Would actually seem counter-intuitive.
This is what he said: When the bell rings,
when they announce to everybody that they
can start taking the test, don’t immediately
start thrashing away at the keyboard!
Relax.
Take pause.
Plan.
Then, slowly, gently get into the game, get
into the rhythm.
He would say.
Interesting piece of advice.
If you consider the Rubik’s Cube… you
can even ask some of the best experts..
they would all agree, that it is impossible
to keep solving the Cube and finally reach
the final, all-perfect-colored-faces without
temporary destruction.
I have brought it to a level of perfection
— perhaps one face at the top, or a plus
/ cross mark on each face, some form of structure
and organisation…
From this, to reach the end goal (just like
the Mummy did), without damaging this current
structure in any way, may not even be possible.
All Cube-solvers will agree.
It’s probably impossible.
If you want to shoot forward, you have to
pull back first.
If you are going to be adamant, saying, “I
won’t pull back, I will only shoot forward”,
your arrow won’t go far enough!
You need to plan for some slack.
You have to pull back.
You need space for your elbow to go backwards.
You are shooting forward anyway, so, why pull
back? — is NOT the logic that applies here.
In America, in the wild Americas, the ram,
the one with the battering skull, … see
what happens when those two rams come together.
The battering rams.
The older ram seems to walk away in submission.
But this posture is known as the Low Stretch.
It means, you want a piece of me?
Come and get it!
It retreats a couple of steps!
Not out of fear.
It is planning.
It is taking two steps backwards so that it
can shoot four steps forward.
If you are going to resolve to never take
a step back, your punching-forward-force may
even be less than optimal!
This is the style and strategy of the battering
ram from the Americas!
But, Thiruvalluvar seems to have known about
it!
In Kural 486, he has said, “Ookkam udaiyaan
odukkam, poruthagar thaakkarkup perun thagaitthu”.
If an enthusiastic, energetic, wise person
delays their activity for some reason, without
immediately diving in and getting started,
it could perhaps be because they are planning
and taking pause, just as the battering ram
takes a few steps back before ramming forward!
It is adjusting.
Strategising.
Planning.
They are not running away in fear!
They are planning better!
So, the message I take away, from these four
/ five little tidbits I have given is, it
is probably not always forward.
Sometimes sideways!
Sometimes may even be backwards.
Sometimes, it might mean temporary destruction.
It might even seem counterintuitive to undo
all the progress made till then.
But… that temporary constructive destruction
may be needed to pave the path for something
even better.
Thank you!